As a data product manager,
you'll act as a connection point across many different types of stakeholders.
Product managers are the glue that binds cross-functional teams together.
Depending on the company or product type,
you might have more stakeholders or different types of stakeholders,
but there are five types of business stakeholders
almost all data product managers will work with as part of their daily responsibilities.
One important stakeholder will be members of the finance and business team.
The finance team will help you measure
key performance indicators that tie into the financial health of your product,
including revenue, profit margins,
and user retention rates.
Another important business stakeholder is marketing.
Marketing sells your product to potential customers.
Those in marketing have a great interest in the product
features you plan to change, upgrade, or add.
If your product also has a sales team,
you'll need to keep them updated on the product road-map as well.
In exchange, sales team members will be able to
provide feedback from real customers about potential features,
while also providing great insight into the competitive landscape.
Another important team is your design team.
Designers can help create a user interface and
user experience that is intuitive to your customers.
They often help with creating simple prototypes for testing,
as well as leading usability testing on more finalized designs.
While the design team may help with every aspect of the product a user sees,
data science teammates focus on what isn't seen,
making your data as useful as possible.
This includes running deep analysis to help you
understand how to better meet user needs and
perhaps building machine learning models that can be a part of
a user-facing feature to provide even more value to your customers.
Finally, one of the teams you'll work most closely
with as a data product manager is the engineering team.
Engineers build and make changes to
a product based on the direction of product management.
The engineering team will also help you instrument
your product and features so that you can collect the data you need.